Punishment is an essential driver of operant instrumental learning. Studies suggest that people's sensitivity to punishment may change from day to day, and such changes could impact mood and mental health. Of particular importance may be the sensitivity to primary aversive stimulation, such as pain or loud noises (as opposed to secondary, conditioned punishment like monetary loss), and the long-term impact such stimulation can have on behavior. However, experimentally testing learning from primary aversive stimulation is difficult even in a single day lab experiment, let alone in an experiment that aims to assess and re-assess such learning over multiple days. This kind of experiment faces a few methodological and practical challenges, such as the habituation of subjects to punishments delivery and less experimental control. The goal of this project was to develop a mobile-phone-based experimental paradigm to probe learning from primary punishment over multiple days. 
Twice a day, for 12 days, subjects carried out a session of the experiment, using an android-mobile-platform designated for this study.  Each session contained two blocks of images with different probabilities for delivering punishment. On each trial two images were presented, and subjects needed to avoid pressing the one that conveyed a higher chance to deliver punishment. After each trial, the outcome of the choice made was revealed, enabling the subject to learn the probabilities of stimuli (feedback trials). After a period that the outcomes of a presented set of stimuli were overt, outcomes were no longer been disclosed as to prevent further learning (no-feedback trials). 
Although subjects performed the experiment outside of the laboratory, they were monitored remotely by the experimenters, reviewing performance and quality of data collected by the mobile platform. For comparison, we used a between-group design, such that each group received a primary or secondary punishment, exclusively. 
To confirm that subjects occupied a substantial and enduring learning process we evaluated subject's performance throughout the 12 days of the experiment. Additionally, to measure the immediate emotional impact of punishment on subjects, heartrate signals were collected throughout the experiment. 
